India is a land of many religions and cultures.

People here take both pleasure and pain alike.

They are dedicated and duty-bound.

In this land, many well known religious leaders have been born.

One such leader has been Swami Vivekananda.

One day a small boy jumped out of the coach in which he was travelling and ran to his mother with a smiling face.

He pointed at the coachman and told his mother.

I want to be a coachman.

How nice it is to drive a coach.

The mother could not say anything at that time.

Later she showed him the picture of Geethopadesha and patted him saying, Dear Naren, if you want, you can bea coachman.

But you should be a coachman like Krishna who taught Arjuna.

Though the boy did not understand it clearly, he became later, what his mother wanted him to be.

The little boy Naren later came to be known as Swami Vivekananda, a great spiritual leader and India’s pride.

Narendra was born on 12th January, 1863 to Vishwanatha Dutta and Bhuvaneshwari Devi in Kolkata(Calcutta).

They considered the child the boon of God Vireshwara Shiva, and named him Vireshwara.

Later they gave him the name Narendranath Dutta.

At the age of six, Narendra was sent to a primary school and later to a private tutor.

He studied Sanskrit grammar, long passages from the Ramayana and the Mahabharata.

He had a strong desire to study more and he wanted to see god.

He met many people but he was not able to get a satisfactory answer.

The desire to see god grew day by day.

Finally one day he became successful when he could meet his guru from whom he got the answer to his desire.

He could see god.

The Guru who made this possible for Naren was SriRamakrishna Paramahamsa.

Sri Ramakrishna Paramahamsa could help him experience god.

Thus Sri Ramakrishna Paramahamsa became Naren’s spiritual guru.

Swami Vivekananda did not stop with this.

He went on and on, walked miles, travelled all over the country to discover truth.

Naren was kind to all.

He had sympathy for the poor, he was courageous too.

These qualities helped him become a wandering monk travelling alone to all places to help the needy.

He often expressed his ideas on education.

According to him, education should develop a complete human being.

He made a speech in the Great Hall of Columbus, in the Parliament of Religions at Chicago on 11 September 1893.

He began his address with the words Sisters and Brothers of America.

Immediately, there was thunderous applause from the vast audience and it lasted for two minutes.

The Swami spoke of the religion that was very vast as the sky and deep as the ocean.

Further, he thanked all those who had assembled there.

He referred to the Indians of all classes and sects.

He said about the Hindu religion that in the true sense, it embraced all humanity.

And declared, I am proud to belong to a religion which has taught the world both tolerance and universal acceptance.

We believe not only in universal tolerance, but we accept all religions as true.

These words were very impressive.

He observed that the divisions in society based on religion has resulted in human hatred.

He felt that human society would be far more advanced when there were no divisions.

Swami Vivekananda expressed his hope saying that the time for driving away these evil forces in society had come.

He told them that everybody should develop a sense of brotherhood and love for each other.

There was great respect and appreciation from the people of America.

After his return to India, he spent his time preaching religious tolerance and worked for the upliftment of the poor.

He established Belur Math in 1898 which became the centre of Ramakrishna Mission with the motto Work is Worship.


