
These organs are situated outside the body and we can see them. There are many organs inside our body. We cannot see them. Let us learn about them.

You cannot see the muscles and bones of our body which are covered by the skin. The skin protects our body. Bones and muscles together give shape and structure to our body. There are differences between the shape and structure of your body and the shape and structure of the bodies of your friends. Observe them.


The important functions of our body such as respiration, digestion, blood circulation and excretion keep our body strong and healthy. Learn about the inner organs of the body and their functions.

Respiration
You know that you take in air through the nose.

Our body needs oxygen that is in the air. When we breathe, the lungs absorb the oxygen from the air. The carbon dioxide which is not needed to our body goes out with the air through the wind pipe and the nose.

The process of taking in oxygen and giving out carbon dioxide is called respiration.

Do you know that the blood circulates in all parts of the body. The main organ of the body which pumps blood
to all parts of the body is called the heart.

You have already learnt about the lungs. The heart is located between the lungs, slightly towards the left. It is
protected by the chest cavity.

Have you seen lifting water from a well through pipes with the help of a pump? In the same way, heart pumps blood to all parts of the body through blood vessels.

The blood circulates to all parts of the body. It gets impure by receiving carbon dioxide from all parts of the
body. This impure blood enters the heart through blood vessels.

From the heart, this impure blood reaches the lungs. In the lungs, it gives up carbon dioxide and receives oxygen
and becomes pure. The pure blood reaches the heart once again through the blood vessels. The pure blood which has oxygen reaches all parts of the body through blood vessels. This is blood circulation.


Keep the funnel of the stethoscope on the chest of your friend. Keep the two tubes into your ears and count the
heartbeat. 

How many times does a heart beat in a minute? Keep your palm on the chest and count the heartbeat.

For proper blood circulation in your body, eat vegetables and fruits regularly. Do exercises daily.


Teeth in the mouth chew the food items into small particles.

The chewed food reaches the stomach through the food pipe.

Food in the stomach gets digested to some extent. It remains here for about three to four hours.

Then this food reaches the small intestine and gets digested further. The digested food reaches
blood through small intestine and reaches all parts of the body.

The undigested food reaches large intestine and moves out of the body through anus in the form
of faeces.

The process by which the food gets digested and reaches the blood is called digestion.



Excretion

Waste is produced due to the household activities. We throw out this waste every day. In the same way so many materials which are not required for the body are produced in our body due to the biological processes like digestion etc. These are wastes.

If these wastes remain in the body, they may cause some diseases. You know that the body removes these wastes through skin and lungs. These are excretory organs.


The body removes the wastes through urine. Let us learn about the excretory organs which help this process.
kidney
urinary canal
urinary bladder
urethra


A pair of kidneys is situated on either side of the backbone. The blood gets filtered here. Impurities present in the blood are separated here. This waste reaches the urinary bladder through urinary canal. Then it passes out of the body through urethra in the form of urine.