
'Prathibha Karanji' is going to be held in Latha’s school next week. Teachers decided to conduct various competitions for the students on that day. List of the competitions was displayed on the notice board. After the
school hours, Latha and her friends started discussing about their participation in the competitions.

Latha : Raju, you draw pictures well, register your name for drawing competition.

Raju : Latha, you have a melodious voice. Why don’t  you participate in the singing competition? 

Mohammed : Rita, you make clay models. You are the best person to participate in that competition.

Rita : Mohammed acts excellently. Latha, why can’t he participate in the drama competition ?

They discussed among themselves and decided about the participation in the competition.

In Karnataka there are a number of great personalities  who are famous in their fields. The  opportunities and 
encouragement they got in their childhood made them so. The achievement of four personalities is given here.


Kuppali Venkatappa Puttappa (Kuvempu)

Kuvenpu who was born at Kuppali is famous as a national poet. He wrote our Nadageethe Jaya Bharatha Jananiya Tanujathe which we sing everyday in our schools. He is the first Kannada poet to get the Jnanapeeta Award for his 
writing. He wrote ‘Kindari Jogi’, Nanna Gopala’, Amalana Kathe etc., for children.  Kuvempu who is famous in the literary field started reading and writing stories, poems and books in his childhood. 


Kittur  Rani Chennamma 

Chennamma was born in a small village called Kakathi in Belagavi district. She was a brave girl. She learnt horse-riding, sword fighting and archery in her childhood. She learnt the skills of warfare in her childhood. Then she got married to Mallasarja Desai of Kitturu and became the queen of Kittur. After the death of Mallasarja, she
fought bravely against the British and she has been called a brave woman.


 Gangubai Hanagal

Gangubai who was born in Dharawada is very famous in India for her singing. When she was 13 years old her parents recognized her interest in music and admitted her to a music school. After learning both Hindustani and Karnatic music, she gave many music concerts in many places of India. She got many awards. She gave many music concerts over the radio. She is very famous in Hindustani music


Many physically challenged people having special talent and skill achieved something and got recognition in the world.  Their determination helped them in their achievement.
