Children were standing in a corner in the village fair eating some sweet meat. A few pieces of sweet meat fell on the ground. Soon a few ants gathered around the pieces of sweet meat to eat.

Fathima : Look here Radha, how many ants have gathered around the pieces of sweet meat!

Radha : Yes, Fathima. See, how unitedly they are carrying their food.

Tejas : Oh! Look, there. How lovely the kittens are!
 
Fathima : Oh! How white they are! The cat is licking the kitten with love.

Radha : Animals also live together like human beings, don’t they?

Tejas : Yes, my father told me that most of the animals live together. Once, When I had been to Nagarahole forest,   I saw a herd of deer and elephants also in groups. I saw a tiger also. But it was all alone. 

Fathima : Look at the dogs fighting for a piece of bread. 

Radha : Look at the sky. The birds are flying together.

Tejas : Yes, Radha. Look at the tree! The monkey is sitting on a branch.

Fathima : The baby monkey is holding on to the belly of its mother.

Radha : Oh! What if the baby monkey falls down?

Tejas : No, the baby monkey is holding its mother very firmly.
 
Radha : Look there, Tejas. The hen is teaching its chicks how to search for food.

Fathima : Look at the honey bee, sucking nectar from a flower. 

Radha : Come, let us talk to the honey bee.

Tejas : Honey bee, honey bee, where is your hive?

Honey Bee : Look there, my hive is in that tree.

Tejas : We see only the bees there. 

Honey bee : That is my family.

Fathima : What! You have such a big family ! 

Honey bee : Yes, there are thousands of bees in a family. There is one queen bee and the rest are worker bees. The worker bees do works such as building the hive, collecting food, looking after the queen bee, etc., The work of the queen bee is only laying eggs.

Radha : Oh!

Tejas : Your hive looks very beautiful!

Honey bee : We produce a sticky material called wax. We build the hive with the wax. We build it on the branches and in hollows of trees, terrace of the big buildings, etc.
 
Fathima : Your food is the nectar of the flowers, isn't it?

Honey bee : Yes, we store the nectar in the hive and eat it when we need food. It is the honey.

Tejas : I too like honey. My grandmother told me that it has medicinal qualities.

Honey bee : True. Do you know that all the honey you eat is not pure? People mix jaggery or sugar syrup to honey and sell it.

Fathima : Then how do we find out whether the honey is pure or not?

Honey bee : Do this. 

Tejas : Oh!

Honey bee : Oh! it’s getting late. I have to collect the nectar. I have to leave you children.

Radha : All right, honey bee. Let us meet again.

Fathima : Do you know I have seen small bees. They build a hive in the space between the stones.
 
Tejas : I have seen the rearing of bees and collection of honey near Nagarahole forest.

Fathima : Wooden honey boxes are kept in gardens. People get the honey collected in it.

Tejas : Yes, I have seen such boxes in my uncle’s garden.

Radha : A lot of honey is used at home. I like honey very much.

Tejas and Fathima : We like it too.

Radha : My grandfather tells me that there are other products from the hive.
