 Let us read:
 THIMMAKKA
 Thimmakka was born in a very poor family 
in Hulikal village in Magadi taluk near Bengaluru, 
and so she could not go to school. Even today, 
she does not know how to read or write.
 When she grew up, she married Chikkaiah, 
who was a cowherd. She herself began to 

 
work as a labourer. Soon after their marriage, Thimmakka 
learned that she would not be able to have a child. She 
was very unhappy. However, with no children around, she 
had a lot of free time. So she decided to do something 
to keep herself busy. She decided to grow something.
 Thimmakka began to plant trees along the road connecting 
her village with the neighbouring village. She had only 
one aim – to create life. She and her husband together 
planted 10 saplings in the first year. Next year they planted 
15 saplings and 20 in the third year. They continued 
planting more and more saplings year after year.
 They also began spending a lot of time looking after 
the saplings – just the way parents would look after 
their children. Chikkaiah carried water in large pots 
for a distance of four kilometres to water the saplings. 
Thimmakka carried one pail of water on her waist and 
another on her head for the same distance. They planted 
the saplings mainly when the rains started and watered 
each new sapling twice a week for one full year. By the 
end of the year, the plants would take roots. At times 
when one or two died, Chikkaiah made sure that they 

 
planted fresh ones in their place. The two of them together 
have planted 284 trees already.
 One day Thimmakka was shocked to learn that 
some of the villagers were planning to cut a few of 
her trees. With the help of the local police she stopped 
them from cutting the trees. This made news. Many 
people read about Thimmakka’s efforts to grow plants. 
Her love for plants earned her many awards. Her hut 
looks like a gallery. The walls of the hut display; 
National Citizen’s Award of 1995, Indira Priyadarshini 
Vrikshamitra Award of 1997, Veera Chakra Prashasthi 
Award of 1997, a certificate of honour from the Women 
and Child Welfare Department of the Government of 
Karnataka, and a certificate of appreciation from the 
Indian Institute of Wood Science and Technology, 
Bengaluru.
 Thimmakka has spent a major part of her life 
looking after trees and plants. It is sad that she has 
noone to look after her in her old age.





 Let us learn to recite:
 TREES ARE A LOT LIKE US
 Michael Mitchell
 I’d like to take a walk in the woods
 Come with me, do you think you could
 We’ll find a tree that we can climb
 We’ll have fun all afternoon
 Little trees need a chance to grow
 It takes time and care
 They’re a lot like us you know
 So many kinds of different trees                       
They look like one big family 
Big ones, short ones, baby ones too
 I’ll name this one after you
 It’ll be a long time before he 
Is tall and strong like a grown up tree
 For now he’s just a kid like us
 Playing out in woods.