 Let us listen:

Your teacher will read this story to you, listen attentively.
 ANDROCLES AND THE LION
 Androcles was a poor slave. One day he ran away from 
his cruel master. 
He hid himself in a cave.  
There was a lion in the cave. He had a big thorn in his paw.
 It gave him a lot of pain. Androcles pulled the thorn out. 
The lion licked his hands to thank him.



 Help The Farmer reach the lion’s cage.
 Let us read:
 SAMEER’S FRIENDS
 The school bell rang. All the children of class IV were 
waiting eagerly for the lunchbreak. It was a hot, sunny 
day and they were very tired and hungry after their sports 
activities. 
After washing their hands, they rushed to collect their 
lunch boxes. And then they went to the playground for 
lunch. They began to eat their food. Suddenly, Maya noticed 
 
Sameer sitting alone in a 
corner. He was not eating 
his food. So, she went 
up to him and asked, 
“What happened, Sameer? 
Why are you not eating?” 
Sameer replied, sadly, “I 
forgot to bring my lunch 
box. Mamma packed it in 
the morning. But, I forgot 
to bring it to school. Now, 
I 
have nothing to eat and I am hungry!”
 Maya felt very bad for poor Sameer. She announced to 
her friends loudly, “Listen friends, Sameer did not bring his 
lunch box today. What shall we do? He is very hungry.”
 Shifa was the first one to answer. “Don’t worry, Sameer can 
eat some of my food.” Soon Mohan joined her. He said, “I 
will also share  
my food with Sameer.” Then Rayaan and 
Shreyas shouted together, “We will also share our lunch 
with Sameer!”  
Soon all the children came rushing to Sameer with their 
lunch boxes. Everyone started to share their food with 
Sameer. So, Sameer had a lot of food with him now. He 
was so pleased with his dear friends. He had tears in his 
eyes. He did not know how to thank them. He only said, 
“I wish everyone had friends like you. Thank you my dear 
friends.” 




Let us listen and recite:  
HEAVEN ON EARTH
 Little drops of water,
 Little grains of sand,
 Make the mighty ocean,
 And the pleasant land.
 Little words of love,
 And little deeds of kindness,
 Make the Earth an Eden,
 Like the heaven above.