Let us listen and recite:
 Kind hearts are gardens, 
Kind thoughts are roots, 
Kind words are blossoms, 
Kind deeds are fruits.
 Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
 Let us read:
 THE WISE KING OF MEWAR
 Ranajith Singh was the King of Mewar. He was brave 
as a lion and he was very kind to the poor.
 One day, he was strolling in his royal garden. His 
minister and some attendants were with him. Blowing 
breeze and the singing birds had made him happy.


All of a sudden a stone struck his forehead. Every
body was stunned. Some of the servants hurried in search 
of those who had thrown the stone. Some men went to 
call the doctors. But the King was calm. He pressed the 
wound with his palm and tried to control the bleeding. 
Then came an old man who looked very nervous. He 
tore the cloth off his shoulder and tied it around the 
King’s forehead. He then fell at the feet of the king and 
said weeping, ‘‘Oh, king, it is me, who is responsible 
for hurting you. I beg your pardon. I did not do it on  
purpose. I am ready to undergo any kind of punishment.’’
 ‘‘Why did you pelt the stone, then?’’ asked the 
minister angrily.
 The old man knelt before the king, folded his palms 
and said, ‘‘Maharaja, I was tired and hungry. I wanted to 
have a mango and pelted the stone at the mango tree.’’
 The king bent at him, caught hold of his  
shoulders and lifted him up. The king wiped off the tears 
of the old man with his shawl. Then smiling at him said, 
“Don’t weep. What you have done is not a crime to be  
punished.”
 He then ordered his cook to offer the hungry old 
man some food immediately. The old man, receiving the 
food, bowed to the king and went his way.
 The king said to his minister, “Don’t get angry about 
such petty incidents. A tree bears the stroke and gives 
fruits; stands in sun and gives us shade. I being a man, 
if I never give food to a hungry man, shall be smaller 
than a tree.’’
 The minister was ashamed and learnt a lesson.
 “Service to Mankind is Service to God.’’


Let us listen and recite:
 Kindness
 anonymous
 It takes a big heart and a brave soul,
 To drive someone’s troubles away,
 Everyone promises to offer help tomorrow,
 But very few can step forward to help today,
 Those who dare to act right now, rather than later
 Know the real meaning of kindness.
 It is this urge of wanting to make a visible difference,
 Is when kindliness actually becomes godliness.