 Let us do:
 Here is a picture of a man, make him a king by 
using the clues given in the box.
 Draw a crown, a sword,  
a shield, pointed shoes, 
waist band, rings, 
necklace, ear studs 
and colour the picture
 Let us read:
 WHO’S THE BEST ?
 Once upon a time in a kingdom, far away in Arabia, there 
lived an old king. He had a beautiful daughter called Jasmine. 
The king and the princess were full of love for their people. 
The king had no sons. So, he decided to give his kingdom to 
the person who would marry his daughter.
 Many princes wanted to marry the princess. But, the king wanted 
a suitable match for his daughter and an able prince to protect


his people. So, he decided to test them. From among the 
princes who proposed, he selected three, namely, Prince Faris, 
Prince Anush and Prince Zeeshan. 
He told them, “I shall give you all a month’s time. Whoever 
brings the best gift for my daughter, shall marry her. But, the 
gift should be good for my kingdom too.” All the three princes 
went their way to bring the best gift for Princess Jasmine.
 After a month, all the three returned to the king’s pal
ace. The king and the princess were curious to see the gifts. 
Everyone was interested to know who their king would be.
 Prince Faris stood up and showed diamonds and rubies. 
He said, “I have brought these precious stones for princess 
Jasmine. A king had them with him. I fought with him, killed 
him and brought these diamonds and rubies.”
 Next, prince Anush got up and showed a gun. He said, 
“I have brought a gun to protect ourselves from our enemies. 
This gun can kill many people from a distance.”

 
Now, it was prince Zeeshan’s turn. He had brought 
nothing. He bowed to the king and said. “I could not 
bring anything for the princess as I was busy the 
whole month.”
 “What made you so busy?” Asked the king. The 
prince replied politely, “My Lord, there is a village in 
our neighbouring kingdom. Some thieves entered it 
and took away the cows and corn of the villagers. I 
attacked the thieves and returned the cows and corn 
to the villagers. Then, I handed over the thieves to 
the king and requested him to protect his people.”
 The king said, “The first prince thinks only about 
wealth. The second one wants to protect himself. But 
the third one is brave and kind too. He can protect my 
kingdom and people. So, he shall marry my daughter 
and rule my kingdom.”
 All the people in the palace were very happy with 
the king’s decision. “Long live the king, Long live Prince 
Zeeshan” they all cheered.






 Let us learn to recite:
 ANTS AND SPIDERS
 Cheryl Sandberg
 Behind the bush upon the mound, 
ants are moving with no sound. 
Leaves are passed along the chain, 
ants as one, a single brain.
 Strands of silver make a net, 
unseen web, a silent threat. 
Fly is caught; it’s far too late, 
spider comes to seal his fate.

 
Ants march on to feed the queen, 
deep below she is unseen. 
Workers feed the silent drones 
in their capsule breeding zones.
 Spider shoots its web to reach 
across the ever widening breach. 
Swinging on a single thread 
beyond the gap the web is spread.