 Let us know:
 Let us know our neighbours.
 Look at the map and write the names of our 
neighbouring countries. Your teacher will help you.
 How should we be with our neighbours?
 Let us read:
 Dr. KOTNIS
 We all remember great men and women 
born in our country. Very rarely are people 
remembered in other countries. Here is a 
story of one great Indian who is remembered 
and respected in China for his service even 
today.
 Dwarakanath Shantharam Kotnis was born 
on 10 October, 1910 in Solapur, a Kannada 


speaking area in Maharashtra. After his matriculation, he wanted 
to become a doctor and serve people, but his family was not 
in a position to bear the expenses for his medical education. 
With a lot of hard work and help from others, he was able to 
pursue his dreams. His determination to study medicine and 
help the needy brought him success. He studied Bachelor of 
Medicine at G.S. Medical College of the University of Mumbai. 
There was a war between China and Japan in 1937. 
Many Chinese soldiers were injured. China requested India to 
send doctors to treat the injured soldiers. Dr. Kotnis was one 
among the five Indian doctors who went to China. Only Dr. 
Kotnis remained there when the others returned to India. He 
used an ambulance as a mobile clinic to treat the wounded 
soldiers. 
There were times when he carried the wounded soldiers 
on his shoulders. Once he happened to work for 72 hours 
continuously without rest or sleep. The hardships of military 
life and stress made him weak. He died of epilepsy in 1942 at 
a very young age of 32. His body was buried in the courtyard 
of Heroes. The President of China, mourned the death of 
Kotnis by observing that “The army has lost a helping hand, 
the nation has lost a friend. Let us always bear in mind his 
international spirit.”
 Even today, Dr. Kotnis is revered 
by the Chinese. In April 2005 
on the occasion of the ‘Ancestors 
Commemoration Day’ flowers were 
sent to the statue of Dr. Kotnis from 
all parts of China, even by school 
children. The story of his life was the 
subject of a Hindi film. Dr. Kotnis Ki Amar Kahani directed 
by V. Shantharam, who was a Kannadiga. Any Chinese top 
level delegation to India never misses to honour the family of 
Dr. Kotnis. The gratitude of Chinese towards him is highly 
remarkable.







 Let us recite:
 FOR ALL WE HAVE
 Roger J Robicheau
 A table with chairs, that welcome sight
 Our family, our friends, pure delight
 A caring kiss with a gentle smile
 Each tender hug lasts that country mile

 
The presence of love so fills the air
 This gift of God brings our hearts so near
 Reflections of past bring nurtured thought
 Great visions come by, what life has taught
 In thankful ways we embrace this day
 And often think of loved ones away
 Those serving us proud are often gone
 But their spirit remains, closely drawn
 Our Nation should praise each special one
 For all we have is through what they’ve done
 The freedom to have Thanks giving Day
 Keeps certain plates bare, please truly pray.
