Protection of the environment is the duty of all.

You must have heard this saying.

The word environment is very familiar to us.

The things around us form the environment.

We can enjoy the environment simply by seeing it.

We see hills, forests, rivers, waterfalls, streams, honeybees, insects, eagles, snakes, soil, light, birds, and many other things around us which make us wonder.

This is our environment.

Our environment is a home for diversity.

You may have the curiosity to know the speciality of this diversity, haven’t you?

If so, try to understand this unit.

Raw groundnuts have the characteristics needed to grow into a plant, so they are called a living component.

In fried groundnuts, the living component is destroyed, so they are in a non-living state.

In the environment, there are living beings that possess living characteristics and non-living beings that do not have living characteristics.

Plants and animals are living beings.

There are certain characteristics used to identify them as living beings.

The characteristics of living beings are explained below.

Living beings are made up of cells.

You may have observed how a house is constructed.

When materials like bricks, cement, water, steel, and wood are arranged in an orderly manner, a house is formed.

Similarly, the bodies of living beings are made up of cells.

You will learn more about cells in higher classes.

Living beings respire.

You have learned in previous classes that living beings respire.

During respiration, living beings take in air, use oxygen, and give out carbon dioxide.

Animals have special organs for respiration.

Plants also depend on oxygen for respiration and usually respire through stomata, which are small openings present on the lower surface of leaves.

With the help of oxygen, the energy present in food is made available to the living body.

Living beings eat food.

Living beings perform many activities daily such as cutting wood, carrying loads, hunting, and so on.

Each part of a plant performs one or another activity, so plants also need food.

Green plants prepare their own food and hence are called autotrophs.

Plants use solar energy, carbon dioxide from the air, water, minerals, and salts absorbed from the soil through roots to prepare food with the help of chlorophyll present in leaves.

This process is called photosynthesis.

Some plants like Drosera, Nepenthes, and Utricularia prepare their own food but depend on insects for nitrogen.

These plants are called insectivorous plants, and you will learn more about them in higher classes.

Animals do not prepare their own food.

They depend on plants and other animals for food and are therefore called heterotrophs.

All animals do not eat the same type of food.

Based on their food habits, animals are classified as herbivores, which eat only plants and plant products; carnivores, which eat other animals; and omnivores, which eat both plants and animals.


