
Nithin got a little tricycle as a gift on his birthday, it was a cute little tricycle with three wheels. It also had a horn which went “Pom! Pom! Pom!” Nithin sat on it and cycled round and round the compound.One day, the cycle told Nithin, “Nithin, I am tired of going round and round in the same place. Let’s go to the main road and have a race with the cars and buses.” “What are you saying?” cried Nithin, shocked. “The big cars and buses will knock us down. No, I will ride only in the compound.” The little cycle got angry with Nithin and decided to go out of the  compound alone. The next day, when Nithin was away at the playschool, the little cycle rolled out of compound. It rolled on into a narrow lane feeling very happy. Suddenly, a big bicycle came from behind ringing its bell “Tring Tring. “Who’s left this silly little tricycle in the middle of the road?” shouted the big fat man on the big bicycle. The little tricycle shook with anger. “Hmmmmph! I am not a silly little tricycle I, too, have wheels and pedals and a beautiful seat!” it shouted after the man and rolled on. After a while, an autorikshaw came rattling along. It stopped and said to the cycle, “Little one, you should not roll about here. It’s dangerous.” The little cycle was not ready to listen. “I too have three wheels. Why should’nt I move around like you?” it asked and then rolled on and reached the main road. What a sight it saw! Cars and buses and lorries! The road was full of them. “Wow ! It’s fun to roll on like this,” it cried. At that moment, a car came to a screeching halt behind the little tricycle. “Roll home before you get knocked down,” it told the tricycle and moved on. The little tricycle got very angry. It got on to the main road and started rolling with the other vehicles. Just then two huge lorries came, one in front of and one behind the little cycle. “I am finished, they’ll crush me!” Cried the terrified little cycle, closing its 
eyes tight. The next moment, the cycle felt itself being lifted and thrown away, it fell upside down. It opened its eyes to see what had happened. The lorries had stopped and carefully pushed it to one side! Both the lorries scolded the cycle and drove away. The little cycle slowly turned right side up, onto its wheels. Its whole body was aching but it somehow slowly rolled back homewards. The car on the road asked the little tricycle, “Are you tired of the road?” The little tricycle kept quiet. “Nithin was right,” it thought and decided never to roll out of the compound ever again.