Once there lived a little boy called Abdullah who loved to eat banana chips.

He was so fond of them that he could never have enough of them.

One night, Abdullah was busy munching and crunching his chips when he suddenly heard a loud “Carrack!” in his mouth.

One of his teeth had fallen off as he was biting the chips!

Abdullah remembered what his grandmother had once told him.

“A tooth that has fallen has to be thrown over the roof.”

He held the tooth in his hand and ran out of the house.

“Go away, go away, big old tooth! Come out, come out, tiny new tooth! Go away, go away, dirty broken tooth! Come out, come out, clean white tooth!” he sang, and threw the tooth over the roof.

Then he went to his room and lay down to sleep.

As he fell asleep, he had a dream.

A fairy, whose head had the shape of a tooth, stood before him.

Her hands were full of teeth of different shapes and sizes.

“Which of these teeth do you want?”

She asked Abdullah.

Abdullah chose a long pointed tooth, like the ones tigers have.

Abdullah opened his mouth and stuck the long, sharp tooth into his gum.

Then he tired to close his mouth.

But the tooth was so long, that he could not close it.

Besides, the sharp end was poking into his lip.

“No, I don’t like this sharp tooth,” he told the fairy.

“Please let me choose another one.”

The fairy held out her hand once again.

This time, Abdullah chose a tooth that had the shape of a rabbit’s tooth.

Then he opened his mouth and stuck the bunny tooth into his gum.

But when he closed his mouth, the tooth was sticking out.

All his friends teased him about it.

Abdullah got very angry.

He pulled out the tooth and gave it back to the fairy.

“I don’t want this tooth either.”

She smiled and showed him other teeth to choose from.

Suddenly Abdullah spotted a large tooth among them.

He picked it up, opened his mouth and tired to fix the giant tooth in his gum.

But it was so big that he could not even push it in.

“Hey! This must be an elephant’s tooth!” he cried.

“My dear fairy, none of these teeth suit me, please, could you choose the right one for me?”

He asked.

The fairy smiled, and held out her hand.

This time there was just one small tooth in it.

Abdullah fixed it in his mouth and it fit him just right.

Abdullah was delighted.

“It’s not as sharp as nails, it doesn’t stick outside, it isn’t too big, it fits my mouth just right,” he cried.

He sang and jumped up and down with joy.

The fairy smiled and told him, “A tiger’s or rabbit’s or elephant’s tooth can never suit you, dear Abdullah.

I have given you a tooth meant for humans.

Take good care of it.”

Abdullah nodded his head and agreed to do as she said.

As the fairy slowly disappeared, Abdullah woke up with a start.

It was morning.

He jumped up from his bed and looked into the mirror to see if the tooth that the fairy had given him was in his mouth.

Yes indeed!

In the place of the fallen tooth, a tiny little tooth peeped out!

Abdullah remembered the fairy’s words and quickly went to the bathroom to brush his teeth.

 
