
Teacher : Tomorrow is August 15. All of you should come early by 7.30 am. Let us celebrate the day by hoisting our National flag.

Ramya : Teacher, what is the importance of August 15?

Teacher : A good question! You have to know about August 15. We, Indians became free on 15th August. Before that, Indians were under British rule. So Tilak, Gokhale, Bhagat Singh, Gandhi, Savarkar, Nehru, Bose, Patel and others fought for many years to make  India a free country.

Rahim : Did they really have to fight?

Teacher : Yes, they fought for our independence and were sent to prison. We must remember them always.

Deepika : Teacher, why do we hoist the flag? 

Teacher : Flag means the nation itself. It represents our motherland. As a mark of respect to the country we are born in, we hoist the flag to show our gratitude

Margaret : Teacher, our flag has three colours. Saffron, white and green.

Teacher : Yes, and do you know what these colours represent? Saffron stands for sacrifice. White for peace and green for prosperity.

Harsha : Teacher, and the white stripe has the chakra. It is blue in colour.

Jayashree: Teacher, what does the chakra signify?

Teacher : It is the Ashoka Chakra and it is the symbol of progress.

 
Abdul : Other than a flag, are there any other symbols for our country?

Teacher : Yes, our national animal is tiger. Our national bird is peacock. Our national flower is lotus.

Aparna : Teacher, our national anthem is Janaganamana….. and Gurudev Ravindranath Tagore wrote this.

Teacher : Good. Have you noticed our national emblem in our currency?

Jayashree: No Teacher.

Teacher : (Takes out a hundred rupee note and shows the national emblem). This is the Lion Capital with a Chakra (flanked by a horse and a bull) taken from the Sarnath pillar of Ashoka, the Great.

Arjun : Thank you, Teacher. I did not know these things. From now on, I’ll love and respect my motherland like my own mother.

Teacher : Good. We should not only respect our national symbols but also protect them from abuse.

Varsha : I stand at attention whenever our National Anthem is being sung.

Teacher : That’s fine. Even though August 15 is a holiday, we can pay tribute to our country by taking an active part in national festivals.

Students : We love our country. We are proud to be Indians.

Teacher : Now, let us all say– “Jai Hind”

Students : Jai Hind







