
We all remember great men and women born in our country. Very rarely are people remembered in other countries.Here is a story of one great Indian who is remembered and respected in China for his service even today.

Dwarakanath Shantharam Kotnis was born on 10 October, 1910 in Solapur, a Kannada speaking area in Maharashtra. After his matriculation, he wanted to become a doctor and serve people, but his family was not in a position to bear the expenses for his medical education. With a lot of hard work and help from others, he was able to pursue his dreams. His determination to study medicine and help the needy brought him success. He studied Bachelor of Medicine at G.S. Medical College of the University of Mumbai. There was a war between China and Japan in 1937.Many Chinese soldiers were injured. China requested India to send doctors to treat the injured soldiers. Dr. Kotnis was one among the five Indian doctors who went to China. Only Dr. Kotnis remained there when the others returned to India. He used an ambulance as a mobile clinic to treat the wounded soldiers. 

There were times when he carried the wounded soldiers on his shoulders. Once he happened to work for 72 hours continuously without rest or sleep. The hardships of military life and stress made him weak. He died of epilepsy in 1942 at a very young age of 32. His body was buried in the courtyard of Heroes. The President of China, mourned the death of Kotnis by observing that “The army has lost a helping hand, the nation has lost a friend. Let us always bear in mind his international spirit.” Even today, Dr. Kotnis is revered by the Chinese. In April 2005 on the occasion of the ‘Ancestors Commemoration Day’ flowers were sent to the statue of Dr. Kotnis from all parts of China, even by school children. The story of his life was the subject of a Hindi film. Dr. Kotnis Ki Amar Kahani directed by V. Shantharam, who was a Kannadiga. Any Chinese top level delegation to India never misses to honour the family of Dr. Kotnis. The gratitude of Chinese towards him is highly remarkable.








 
